Description: The following reading response was created for a University of Nebraska-Lincoln English course titled "Advanced Topics of the Digital Humanities."

As I develop my final project, I want to remember the ideas taken from the first section of the class, where we discuss the concept of rejecting a clear hierarchy and crediting collaborators to avoid erasure. I will also research the background context of the platforms I choose for my satellite project and develop a plan to keep it sustainable so that it will be around as long as possible.Some crucial takeaways from the infrastructure tier are crediting collaborators for their work on projects and removing the traditional, hierarchical structure often seen in Digital Humanities. As I develop my final project, I will try to efficiently annotate ideas I’ve taken from class to credit those who proposed the idea in the first place. In doing so, I’m avoiding the erasure that has happened in the past in DH projects. Another way collaboration could tie to my final project is by linking to the other satellite projects from the class. As for rejecting the hierarchical structure, I believe this will be relatively easy since we are mostly doing our final projects alone. However, when I link to other satellite projects, I will avoid using the terms “undergraduate” and “graduate” students. I plan to give everyone a universal title, maybe “collaborators” or “contributors.”One more idea that I’d like to carry with me as I begin developing my satellite project is being a critical user. To do so, I’ll do some background information on all platforms I use for my satellite project. As we learned in the article from week three, “Programming the Invisible Discipline,” we know that just because a platform is currently open access doesn’t mean it will remain open in the future. To work around this, I plan to use a platform that has remained open access for a while. I will also check the website regularly after our class has ended to ensure that it is still accessible. Professor Wisnicki also brought up the idea of adding an acknowledgment about what you find in your research to educate users on the platform’s history.Lastly, a major focal point of my satellite project will revolve around the sustainability of the project. This is a point that Jun, Brett, and I discussed in class on Tuesday after reading “Africa’s digitization.” While the article discusses the sustainability of physical devices, our discussion turned toward how to keep our online projects sustainable and last the test of time. While this ties a bit into next week’s concept of minimal computing, I would like to keep this in mind as I develop my final project. It’s important to me that my project is sustainable and lasts as long as possible. To do so, I plan to use a minimal computing approach and try to keep the website as low-tech friendly as possible.Response:You have some great thoughts in here! I was particularly drawn to where you discussed having to recenter your idea of what a novel is because I had to do the same thing as I was looking through One More Voice. For the satellite project, it would be interesting to include some sort of disclaimer or educational tool that explains this to your users. In a way, it rejects the idea of a world literature standard and pushes against the colonialist ideas that are ingrained in that thinking. 