Description: The following reading response was created for a University of Nebraska-Lincoln English course titled "Advanced Topics of the Digital Humanities." This assignment asked students to narrow down their list of works from the "OMV Large Dataset" assignment as well as identify five themes that connect the works. 

OMV Exploration 2: Small Data SetINTRODUCTION      My small dataset includes works written by women or about women. Under the section of full-length works, the titles included are The Life and Letters of Toru Dutt by Toru Dutt, The Chinese Ishmael by Sui Sin Far, and The History of Mary Prince, a West Indian Slave by Mary Prince. Aside from the collection written by Sui Sin Far, the books from Toru Dutt and Mary Prince deliver a first-hand account of the challenges that they’ve faced as woman in a new or foreign culture. They discuss topics of assimilation, exposure to Christianity, and societal pressures place onto women at the time. The book by Sui Sin Far discusses these themes as well; however, rather than it being a first-hand account of these things, she has written fictional short stories to discuss these themes.      The titles under recovered pieces include “Original Correspondence” by Edith Eaton (Sui Sin Far), “Letter to A.M. Chrigwin” by Semane Khama, and “Nosutu, the Mother of Soga” by NoSuthu Soga Jotelo. The “Original Correspondence” from Edith Eaton shows her letters to an editor about a book that she’s written. In the letters, she makes comments about telling the life of a Chinese person in American and critiques of stories from other writers that have tried to do the same thing. In “Letter to A.M. Chrigwin” by Semane Khama, the author is expressing thanks to a missionary who has come to her village. While reading this article, I was reminded of something Professor Wisnicki said about being weary of letters where a person speaks against themselves or
their community. I’m wondering how I might tie this into this letter and the letters I found in ther periodical pieces. The last piece under this section is titled “Nosutu, the Mother of Soga” by NoSuthu Soga Jotelo. Like the letter from Semane Khama, this letter is praising the instruction she and her son received from missionaries.Lastly, the periodical pieces that I’ve selected are “Gleaning from Recent Letters. AConversation with Yoruba Market Women” by James White, “Gleanings from Recent Letters. The Gospel Preached by a Captive Yoruba Girl” by Daniel Olubi, and “India. Native Female Education” by Anonymous, Chenjee, Tooloosee, and Lutchmee. The two pieces from the “Gleanings from Recent Letters” discuss dissemination of Christianity. In the first article titled “Conversations with Yoruba Market Women,” the author tells a story of how he went into a marketplace and condemned women for their “hatred of God” (“Gleanings from Recent Letters. A Conversation with Yoruba Market Women” | One More Voice). The second article, “The Gospel Preached by a Captive Yoruba Girl,” tells a story of a young girl whose family refused to let her go to a Christian church by tying her up and discarding everything the missionaries said.THEMESFive themes that I’ve identified while going through these texts are:• Societal standards placed on women: This is discussed specifically in the book length works; however, I think it could be applied to some of the letters as well.• Colonialism: This theme is seen throughout. The idea of missionaries coming in to teach communities about the western or Christian way to live life is evident in all texts.
• Role of Religion: I realized that some of the works discuss the idea of a non-Christian religion and the expectations that come with that, which is why I’ve decided to split up the two themes.• Christian Influences: Missionaries carry a major role in the letters. They are often praised for the work they do in the communities that they work in.• Description of assimilation: Again, the books describe this idea of assimilation into a new or foreign community. This can also tie to the letters where women are expressing their praise to missionaries for spreading the gospel in their towns.CITATIONS (MLA format)Recovered TextsAnonymous; John F. Cumming; Anonymous; Tause; NoSuthu Soga Jotelo. “‘Nosutu, the Mother of Soga’ (Excerpt)” (October 1873; 2 March 1874). Joanne Ruth Davis, Adrian S. Wisnicki, eds. One More Voice, site launch edition, 2020, https://onemorevoice.org/html/transcriptions/liv_020043_TEI.html.Khama, Semane Setlhoko. “Letter to A.M. Chirgwin” (5 December 1934). Heather F. Ball, Adrian S. Wisnicki, eds. One More Voice, site launch edition, 2020, https://onemorevoice.org/html/transcriptions/liv_020024_TEI.html.Manuscripts and Archives Division, The New York Public Library. "Eaton, Edith" The New York Public Library Digital Collections. 1903 - 1907. https://digitalcollections.nypl.org/items/b75b4c40-d1ec-0134-a1a2-00505686d14e
Book-length worksDutt, Toru, and Harihar Das. The Life of Toru Dutt. Oxford University Press, 1921. Far, Sui Sin. “A Chinese Ishmael.” 1899.Prince, Mary. The History of Mary Prince, a West Indian Slave; The Narrative of Asa-Asa, a Captured African. F. Westley and A.H. Davis, 1831.Periodical PiecesAnonymous, Chenjee, Tooloosee, and Lutchmee. “India. Native Female Education.” Edited by Trevor Bleick, Kenneth C. Crowell, and Kasey Peters. “BIPOC Voices,” One More Voice, solidarity edition, Collaborative Organization for Virtual Education (COVE), 2022, https://onemorevoice.org/html/bipoc-voices/digital-editions-soas/liv_025029_HTML.htmlAnonymous, and Daniel Olubi. “Gleanings from Recent Letters. The Gospel Preached by a Captive Yoruba Girl.” Edited by Kenneth C. Crowell and Cassie Fletcher. “BIPOC Voices,” One More Voice, solidarity edition, Collaborative Organization for VirtualEducation (COVE), 2022, https://onemorevoice.org/html/bipoc-voices/digital-editions-amd/liv_026047_HTML.htmlAnonymous, James White, and Anonymous Yoruba Market Women. “Gleanings from Recent Letters. A Conversation with Yoruba Market Women.” Edited by Kenneth C. Crowell and Cassie Fletcher. “BIPOC Voices,” One More Voice, solidarity edition, Collaborative Organization for Virtual Education (COVE), 2022, https://onemorevoice.org/html/bipoc-voices/digital-editions-amd/liv_026043_HTML.html