Description: The following reading response was created for a University of Nebraska-Lincoln English course titled "Advanced Topics of the Digital Humanities." This reading response collects the topics that I would like to take from the class readings and implement into my final project. This is a rough draft of my "Manifesto on Project Development."

TITLE: Manifesto on Project DevelopmentAs I develop my final project, I would like to find a clear way to credit my collaborators, be a critical digital user, and create a sustainable online project by using minimal computing methods. At the beginning of this course, we were focused on infrastructure and discussed how to go about crediting collaborators for their work on projects, which in turn removes the traditional, hierarchical structure that is often seen in Digital Humanities. As I develop my final project, I will efficiently annotate ideas I’ve taken from class to credit those who proposed the idea in the first place. Additionally, if I choose to use only HTML and CSS for my final project, I will credit all sources that I use to help me develop my projects code. During class, Professor Wisnicki showed us the code for One More Voice, and I find it fascinating that even in the code he is crediting sites that he has pulled ideas from. Not only does this help him to remember where he got the material from, but it also elevates this idea of crediting the people and resources that helped create your project. One more way I’d like to incorporate collaboration into my final project is by linking my project to other projects that have similar themes or reference the same authors or materials. When I’m referring to another student’s project, I plan to use a universal title like “collaborator” or “contributor.”Another idea that I will carry with me as I develop my project is the idea of being a critical user. To do so, I will take the advice of Professor Wisnicki and research background information on all the platforms I decide to use for my satellite project. As mentioned, the article “Programming the Invisible Discipline” just because a platform is currently open access doesn’t mean that it will remain open in the future. To avoid this, I’m leaning toward building a website from scratch using HTML and CSS. I know that there will be a bit of a learning curve and that I will potentially be giving up the fancy features that I could implement in my project if I were using an online web-building platform, but I’m okay with that and think it will be a nice challenge. Lastly, a big focal point of my satellite revolves around sustainability of the project. The article “Africa’s digitization” discusses the physical sustainability of technology; however, when Jun, Brett, and I were discussing this article, we started to talk about the sustainability of online projects and how they can last the test of time. It’s important for me that my satellite project is sustainable and lasts as long as possible. By building the website using HTML and CSS, I will be ensuring that my project has the best chance of being sustainable. 