Description: The following reading response was created for a University of Nebraska-Lincoln English course titled "Advanced Topics of the Digital Humanities." This assignment asked students to narrow down their list of works from the "OMV Large Dataset" assignment as well as identify five themes that connect the works. 


OMV Exploration 2: Small Data Set

INTRODUCTION

      My small dataset includes works written by women or about women. Under the section of full-length works, the titles included are The Life and Letters of Toru Dutt by Toru Dutt, The Chinese Ishmael by Sui Sin Far, and The History of Mary Prince, a West Indian Slave by Mary Prince. Aside from the collection written by Sui Sin Far, the books from Toru Dutt and Mary Prince deliver a first-hand account of the challenges that theyÕve faced as woman in a new or foreign culture. They discuss topics of assimilation, exposure to Christianity, and societal pressures place onto women at the time. The book by Sui Sin Far discusses these themes as well; however, rather than it being a first-hand account of these things, she has written fictional short stories to discuss these themes.
      The titles under recovered pieces include ÒOriginal CorrespondenceÓ by Edith Eaton (Sui Sin Far), ÒLetter to A.M. ChrigwinÓ by Semane Khama, and ÒNosutu, the Mother of SogaÓ by NoSuthu Soga Jotelo. The ÒOriginal CorrespondenceÓ from Edith Eaton shows her letters to an editor about a book that sheÕs written. In the letters, she makes comments about telling the life of a Chinese person in American and critiques of stories from other writers that have tried to do the same thing. In ÒLetter to A.M. ChrigwinÓ by Semane Khama, the author is expressing thanks to a missionary who has come to her village. While reading this article, I was reminded of something Professor Wisnicki said about being weary of letters where a person speaks against themselves or

their community. IÕm wondering how I might tie this into this letter and the letters I found in ther periodical pieces. The last piece under this section is titled ÒNosutu, the Mother of SogaÓ by NoSuthu Soga Jotelo. Like the letter from Semane Khama, this letter is praising the instruction she and her son received from missionaries.
Lastly, the periodical pieces that IÕve selected are ÒGleaning from Recent Letters. A

Conversation with Yoruba Market WomenÓ by James White, ÒGleanings from Recent Letters. The Gospel Preached by a Captive Yoruba GirlÓ by Daniel Olubi, and ÒIndia. Native Female EducationÓ by Anonymous, Chenjee, Tooloosee, and Lutchmee. The two pieces from the ÒGleanings from Recent LettersÓ discuss dissemination of Christianity. In the first article titled ÒConversations with Yoruba Market Women,Ó the author tells a story of how he went into a marketplace and condemned women for their Òhatred of GodÓ (ÒGleanings from Recent Letters. A Conversation with Yoruba Market WomenÓ | One More Voice). The second article, ÒThe Gospel Preached by a Captive Yoruba Girl,Ó tells a story of a young girl whose family refused to let her go to a Christian church by tying her up and discarding everything the missionaries said.


THEMES

Five themes that IÕve identified while going through these texts are:

¥ Societal standards placed on women: This is discussed specifically in the book length works; however, I think it could be applied to some of the letters as well.
¥ Colonialism: This theme is seen throughout. The idea of missionaries coming in to teach communities about the western or Christian way to live life is evident in all texts.

¥ Role of Religion: I realized that some of the works discuss the idea of a non-Christian religion and the expectations that come with that, which is why IÕve decided to split up the two themes.
¥ Christian Influences: Missionaries carry a major role in the letters. They are often praised for the work they do in the communities that they work in.
¥ Description of assimilation: Again, the books describe this idea of assimilation into a new or foreign community. This can also tie to the letters where women are expressing their praise to missionaries for spreading the gospel in their towns.


CITATIONS (MLA format)

Recovered Texts

Anonymous; John F. Cumming; Anonymous; Tause; NoSuthu Soga Jotelo. ÒÔNosutu, the Mother of SogaÕ (Excerpt)Ó (October 1873; 2 March 1874). Joanne Ruth Davis, Adrian S. Wisnicki, eds. One More Voice, site launch edition, 2020, https://onemorevoice.org/html/transcriptions/liv_020043_TEI.html.
Khama, Semane Setlhoko. ÒLetter to A.M. ChirgwinÓ (5 December 1934). Heather F. Ball, Adrian S. Wisnicki, eds. One More Voice, site launch edition, 2020, https://onemorevoice.org/html/transcriptions/liv_020024_TEI.html.
Manuscripts and Archives Division, The New York Public Library. "Eaton, Edith" The New York Public Library Digital Collections. 1903 - 1907. https://digitalcollections.nypl.org/items/b75b4c40-d1ec-0134-a1a2-00505686d14e

Book-length works

Dutt, Toru, and Harihar Das. The Life of Toru Dutt. Oxford University Press, 1921. Far, Sui Sin. ÒA Chinese Ishmael.Ó 1899.
Prince, Mary. The History of Mary Prince, a West Indian Slave; The Narrative of Asa-Asa, a Captured African. F. Westley and A.H. Davis, 1831.


Periodical Pieces

Anonymous, Chenjee, Tooloosee, and Lutchmee. ÒIndia. Native Female Education.Ó Edited by Trevor Bleick, Kenneth C. Crowell, and Kasey Peters. ÒBIPOC Voices,Ó One More Voice, solidarity edition, Collaborative Organization for Virtual Education (COVE), 2022, https://onemorevoice.org/html/bipoc-voices/digital-editions-
soas/liv_025029_HTML.html

Anonymous, and Daniel Olubi. ÒGleanings from Recent Letters. The Gospel Preached by a Captive Yoruba Girl.Ó Edited by Kenneth C. Crowell and Cassie Fletcher. ÒBIPOC Voices,Ó One More Voice, solidarity edition, Collaborative Organization for Virtual
Education (COVE), 2022, https://onemorevoice.org/html/bipoc-voices/digital-editions-

amd/liv_026047_HTML.html

Anonymous, James White, and Anonymous Yoruba Market Women. ÒGleanings from Recent Letters. A Conversation with Yoruba Market Women.Ó Edited by Kenneth C. Crowell and Cassie Fletcher. ÒBIPOC Voices,Ó One More Voice, solidarity edition, Collaborative Organization for Virtual Education (COVE), 2022, https://onemorevoice.org/html/bipoc-
voices/digital-editions-amd/liv_026043_HTML.html


