Description: The following reading response was created for a University of Nebraska-Lincoln English course titled "Advanced Topics of the Digital Humanities." This response is similar to response 5 in that it takes the ideas that I want to implement into my final project. This is the final version of my "Manifesto on Project Development." It also includes a rough draft of my website introduction.

WEBSITE INTRODUCTION
This website explores the intersections of Christianity, colonialism, and womenÕs experiences through a selection of eight literary works. The website features a range of literary works that explore the intersections of Christianity, colonialism, and women's experiences. These works include the life and letters of Toru Dutt and The Chinese Ishmael by Sui Sin Far. In addition, the website features recovered pieces like Semane Khama's "Letter to A.M. Chrigwin," "Original Correspondence" by Edith Eaton, and NoSuthu Soga Jotelo's "Nosutu, the Mother of Soga," as well as periodical pieces such as "India. Native Female Education" by Anonymous, Chenjee, Tooloosee, and Lutchmee. The website also offers a range of scholarly articles that provide an in-depth analysis of the themes and their context. 

What sets this website apart is its emphasis on the often-overlooked voices of women writers featured in the periodical press and recovered pieces by featuring these works in an easily accessible website. It fills a critical gap in the study of literature, making it a valuable resource for anyone interested in the history of Christianity during colonial times and women's writing. Through this website, readers can gain a deeper understanding of the role that women played in shaping the literary and cultural landscape of the past, and how their contributions continue to resonate today.

MISSION STATEMENT
TITLE: Manifesto on Project Development

As I develop my final project, I would like to find a clear way to credit my collaborators, be a critical digital user, and create a sustainable online project by using minimal computing methods. 

I. Acknowledgement of Sources and Collaborators
At the beginning of this course, we were focused on infrastructure and discussed how to go about crediting collaborators for their work on projects, which in turn removes the traditional, hierarchical structure that is often seen in Digital Humanities. As I develop my final project, I will efficiently annotate ideas IÕve taken from class to credit those who proposed the idea in the first place. 

For my final project, I will be using Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and will credit all sources that I use to help me develop my projects code. HTML is used to create content for website while CSS is used to customize that content. In class, Professor Wisnicki showed us the code for a website he created called One More Voice, and I find it fascinating that even in the code he is crediting sites that he has pulled ideas from. Not only does this help him to remember where he got the material from, but it also elevates this idea of crediting the people and resources that helped create your project. 

One more way IÕd like to incorporate collaboration into my final project is by linking my project to other projects that have similar themes or reference the same authors or materials. When IÕm referring to another studentÕs project, I plan to use a universal title like ÒcollaboratorÓ or Òcontributor.Ó

II. Critical Development
Another idea that I will carry with me as I develop my project is the idea of being a critical user. To do so, I will take the advice of Professor Wisnicki and research background information on all the platforms I decide to use for my satellite project. 

As mentioned, the article ÒProgramming the Invisible DisciplineÓ just because a platform is currently open access doesnÕt mean that it will remain open in the future. To avoid this, IÕm leaning toward building a website from scratch using HTML and CSS. I know that there will be a bit of a learning curve and that I will potentially be giving up the fancy features that I could implement in my project if I were using an online web-building platform, but IÕm okay with that and think it will be a nice challenge. 

III. Long-Term Sustainability
A major focal point of my satellite revolves around sustainability of the project. The article ÒAfricaÕs digitizationÓ discusses the physical sustainability of technology. During an in-class discussion with my classmates Jun and Brett, we discussed the sustainability of online projects and how they can last the test of time. ItÕs important for me that my satellite project is sustainable and lasts as long as possible. By building the website using HTML and CSS, I will be ensuring that my project has the best chance of being sustainable. 

